We all have a pretty intuitive idea of what
a path is.
We consider it as a way of getting from place
A to place B.
We can consider it as a set of points that
link A to B; a set of small steps that we
take along the way.
A path is a spatial construct.
It says something about how we get from A
to B through the world but it doesn't say
anything about how quickly we should move
along it.
There's no notion of time.
A trajectory on the other hand comprises a
path and a schedule for getting from A to
B. So there is a notion of time or speed along
the path.
It's a set of points that I need to be at
by a particular time.
In my MATLAB work space, I have got two poses
represented as 4x4 homogeneous transformation
matrices.
The first pose represented by the workspace
variable T0, has got no rotation and has its
origin at the origin of the world coordinate
frame.
The second post represented by the work space
variable T1, comprises set of 1 in the x direction
2 in the y direction and 3 in the z direction
and an orientation described by roll pitch
yaw angles 0.6, 0.8 and 1.4 radians respectively.
And we can visualize each of these poses.
I can plot the pose T0 and we can see there
its origin is at the origin of the world
frame.
And its axes are aligned with the world frame.
I can plot the other pose T1 and we can see
that its origin is not at the origin of the
world reference frame and its axes are not
parallel to the reference axes.
Now I can animate the motion that goes from
pose T0 to pose T1 and we can see our coordinate
frame is translating and rotating in order
to move from pose T0 to pose T1. So this
is what I mean when I talked about a trajectory
which is smooth motion from one pose to the
next.
Figuring out how to do this is the subject
of this lecture.